# Lully
A small library providing some helpers for python devs.

See the [tests](test/) for usage examples and ideas.


## Collections

### Otom
The One-To-One-Mapping is a special kind of dict, where all values are also keys, associated to their key.


    from lully import Otom

    O = Otom({
        'one': 1,
        'two': 2,
        'tee': 3,
    })
    assert O[1] == 'one'
    assert O['one'] == 1

An Otom acts like a dict. See [tests](test/test_collections.py) for more.


## Confiseur
A Confiseur is here to help with configurations.

The principle is to subclass, for each configuration kind you need, the Confiseur base class and populate it with Bonbon instances, describing options.

    from lully import Confiseur, Bonbon

    class MyConfig(Confiseur):

        def bonbons(self) -> [Bonbon]:
            return (
                Bonbon('server options', 'max instances', default=3),
            )

        def validate(self, cfg):
            if cfg['server options']['max instances'] > 10:
                self.add_error(f"Can't handle more than ten instances. Provided: {cfg['server options']['max instances']}.")

    myconfig = MyConfig('{"server options": { "max instances": 11 }}')
    assert myconfig['server options']['max instances'] == 11
    assert myconfig.has_error
    assert len(myconfig.errors)

See [tests](test/test_confiseur.py) for more.


## Itermore
More itertools functions !

    from lully.itermore import window, grouper, flatten, dotproduct, ncycles

See the [source file](lully/itermore.py) for the full set of functions.


## Kotlin-inspired functions
When coding in other languages, you get ideas. Here are the ones i got after a 1h course of Kotlin.

    from lully import first, last, zip_with_next

    assert first([1, 2]) == 1
    assert last([1, 2]) == 2
    assert first([2, 3], lambda x: x % 2) == 3
    assert tuple(zip_with_next('abc')) == (('a', 'b'), ('c', None))

See the [source file](lully/kotlin.py) for the full set of functions.


## Fief
This name should recall both its goal, which is *FIltering of EFfective paramaters*, and the fact it keeps functions to work within their [fief](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fief).

You have this function:

    def func(a, b):
        ...  # some implementation

and you have its parameter stored in a dict, with other keys that are not for that specific function:

    config = {'a': 1, 'b': 'doe', 'loglevel': 'WARNING'}

Thus, you can't just do that:

    func(**config)

Because of the expected:

    TypeError: func() got an unexpected keyword argument 'loglevel'

One solution can be to filter that dict, but that's cumbersome and needs maintainance. And that's worse if you have a lot of functions to call that way.

Fief is a decorator that will make that for you, using `inspect` module.


    from lully import fief

    @fief
    def func(a, b):
        return a + b

    config = {'a': 2, 'b': 3, 'loglevel': 'WARNING'}

    # and suddenly, you can provide anything in keywords argument:
    assert func(**config) == 5   # no TypeError, that's magic !


## random
### lsample
This is a function answering to the *n choose k* problem using the Vitter's algorithm.

The problem is to choose randomly n element in a set of k. That's usually done with the `random.sample(n, [1, 2, ...])` function. Hence the *sampling* part of `lsample` name.
However, that stdlib function will load everything in memory, forcing you to provide a list, not a generator.

Vitter's solution is to collect the `n` elements during a single pass over the list, making possible to work on generators,
as long as you have a idea of their size, hence not loading all data in memory.

    from lully import lsample
    print(lsample(3, [x for x in range(10)], it_size=10))

This enables you to pick 100 random tweets among the entire tweeter database without having to load it in memory.
Provided you have enough time for the full browsing to be performed.

See [that repo](https://github.com/aluriak/linear_choosens) for more information, sources and benchmarks.


### weighed_choices
This function is basically a `random.choice()` equivalent, but where each choice can be weighted.

    from lully import weighed_choices
    print(weighed_choices(a=2, b=4, c=1))

Will print you mostly `b`, sometimes `a` and only once on seven calls `c`.

Note that you can also provide the input choices as a dict:

    print(weighed_choices({'a': 2, 'b': 4, 'c': 1))

